JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: It's
the final
15 days.
Donald Trump turns up the heat
in Florida,
while Hillary Clinton expands
her focus to
Senate races.
Then: an update on one man's
life since we
met him four years ago as an
outspoken political
leader in a crumbling Syrian
town.
SALEH HAWA, Local Administrative
Council,
Haratan, Syria: We are being
butchered under
the eye of the international
community.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And two sets of
victory-starved
fans, the Chicago Cubs and the
Cleveland Indians,
get set to compete in a World
Series for the
ages.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The finish line
draws closer,
and one presidential hopeful is
trying to
catch up, while the other is
working to bring
friends along with her.
Lisa Desjardins reports on the
events of this
campaign day.
LISA DESJARDINS: Donald Trump
right now is
focused on one word, Florida,
Florida, Florida.
QUESTION: How are you feeling
about Florida,
Mr. Trump?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Very good.
Feel very good.
LISA DESJARDINS: He's in the
middle of a three-day,
five-rally swing through the
critical Sunshine
State, where early in-person
voting started
today.
He maintained that his outlook
is bright and
that polls showing him falling
behind are
flawed.
DONALD TRUMP: They are phony
polls put out
by phony media.
And I will tell you what.
All of us are affected by this
stuff.
And what they do is they try and
suppress
the vote.
This way, people don't go out
and vote.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's a
different story for
Hillary Clinton.
With increasingly strong polling
numbers,
she's pushing to win Democratic
control of
Congress.
Today, it was a New Hampshire
rally push for
Senate candidate Maggie Hassan.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
That's why we need leaders like
Maggie.
And unlike her opponent, she has
never been
afraid to stand up to Donald
Trump.
LISA DESJARDINS: Over the this
weekend, Clinton
was aiming at races in
Pennsylvania.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I hope
you will do
everything you can to elect
Katie McGinty
your next senator.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: And in North
Carolina.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I am
also hoping you're
going to send Deborah Ross to
the United States
Senate.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: And it's not
just Clinton.
Running mate Tim Kaine joined in
from Florida
today, targeting incumbent
Republican Senator
Marco Rubio.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Let me just quote Marco Rubio.
He called Donald Trump
dangerous, and he called
Donald Trump a con artist, but
he's supporting
Donald Trump.
I don't get it, how you could
call somebody
a dangerous con artist and
support him.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meanwhile, a
new story is
out related to the FBI's Clinton
e-mail investigation.
It's a Wall Street Journal
report centering
on Andrew McCabe, who became
deputy FBI director
this year, and as a result
gained an oversight
role in the e-mail probe.
The story says his wife, Jill,
ran for Virginia
state Senate last year and
received campaign
funding thanks to Clinton ally
and Virginia
Governor Terry McAuliffe.
She lost her race.
Months later, her husband became
involved
with the Clinton investigation.
The Journal reports that the FBI
didn't see
a conflict because McCabe's
wife's campaign
was over and there was no direct
connection
to Clinton.
Still, it opened the door to
attacks from
team Trump, which said in a
statement today
that the whole situation --
quote -- "shows
either negligent behavior by the
FBI or a
level of corruption."
Two weeks to go, and it is both
a race to
get votes and to block votes
from the other
side.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
Obama administration confirmed
that health
insurance premium costs will
jump next year
under the Affordable Care Act.
A mid-level plan will rise an
average of 25
percent in states served by the
federal online
marketplace.
And 20 percent of consumers will
have just
one company to choose from.
Sign-up starts November 1.
AT&T said today that it's
confident its deal
to buy the Time Warner media
empire will pass
muster with Congress and federal
regulators.
The telecom giant announced
plans on Saturday
to take over the parent of HBO,
CNN and the
Warner Bros. Studio for more
than $85 billion.
Officials in France today began
clearing the
makeshift migrant camp known as
the Jungle.
The operation in Calais means
moving some
6,500 people, many of them
trying to reach
Britain.
Martin Geissler of Independent
Television
News reports.
MAN: It's OK.
You can go.
It's OK.
MARTIN GEISSLER: With a friendly
word and
a hand on the shoulder, they
were ushered
towards their buses, the
authorities doing
what they could to reassure
these people everything's
going to be alright.
PASCAL BRICE, OFPRA: We have
been talking
with them many times, convincing
them to stay
in France, seek residence in
France, so they're
rather happy that we can do that
today.
MARTIN GEISSLER: The exodus was
mostly orderly
and impressive in its scale.
At times, the authorities seemed
almost overwhelmed.
These people queued in their
hundreds to be
processed, then dispatched to
centers right
across France.
There were maps to explain where
they were
going, but no promises as to
what the future
might hold.
This group of Afghan men told me
they will
stay in Northern France and keep
trying to
cross the channel.
I asked Bakhram why he came
here.
He lifted his jacket and showed
me an appalling
abdominal wound.
A Taliban bomb did this, he
said.
Whatever the future holds, it
can't be as
bad as his past.
MAN: Again, I will come back.
MARTIN GEISSLER: You're going to
still come
back here?
MAN: Yes, I still come back.
MARTIN GEISSLER: There was some
disorder here
last night.
The authorities are preparing
for more in
the hours ahead.
The people of Calais want
Britain's help to
ensure this kind of crisis
doesn't arise again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Work on
demolishing the camp
is to begin later this week.
In Iraq, government forces
pushed into two
more villages today as their
offensive to
retake the city of Mosul entered
its second
week.
Special forces blasted away at
Islamic State
fighters, driving them out of
their positions.
Elsewhere, Iraqi federal police
handed out
water and other aid to
civilians.
And, in Syria, government troops
have captured
a key hilltop in the city of
Aleppo.
Heavy fighting resumed there
after a cease-fire
expired over the weekend.
Few rebels or civilians left the
city during
the lull.
There's word that greenhouse
gases passed
a grim milestone in 2015.
The U.N.'s weather organization
says carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere
reached 400 parts
per million last year for the
first time on
record.
The agency says that's 44
percent more CO2
than before the Industrial
Revolution.
PETTERI TAALAS,
Secretary-General, World
Meteorological
Organization: Its lifetime is
very long.
And there have been some
scientific studies
estimating that the return back
to preindustrial
levels may take tens of
thousands of years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.N. report
mainly blames
the burning of fossil fuels.
But a powerful El Nino weather
pattern contributed
as well.
Wall Street got the week off to
a good start.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 77
points to close at 18223.
The Nasdaq rose 52, and the S&P
500 added
10.
And two deaths of note tonight.
First, Tom Hayden passed away
Sunday after
suffering a stroke last year.
He was a leader of the
anti-Vietnam War movement
who became a major name in
California politics.
Tom Hayden's political activism
began in 1960
at the University of Michigan.
He helped form Students for a
Democratic Society,
or SDS, a leader of radical
opposition to
the Vietnam War.
In 1968, Hayden organized
anti-war protests
outside Chicago's tumultuous
Democratic National
Convention.
For that, he was convicted of
inciting riots
as one of the so-called Chicago
7, but the
verdicts were later overturned.
Hayden stayed at the forefront
of the anti-war
movement, and, with actress Jane
Fonda, traveled
to North Vietnam in 1972.
TOM HAYDEN, Anti-War Activist:
They insisted
that there was no peace with
honor possible
through the bombing of their
capital, that
it wasn't possible for them to
be bombed into
any compromise of their
fundamental position
regarding what they define as
their national
rights.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hayden and Fonda
were married
17 years, before divorcing in
1990.
Along the way, he entered
California politics
and served as a state lawmaker
for nearly
two decades.
He also ran unsuccessfully for
governor of
California and then mayor of Los
Angeles.
In later years, Hayden was a
vocal opponent
of the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.
Tom Hayden died Sunday in Santa
Monica, California.
He was 76 years old.
And Bobby Vee passed away today
in Minneapolis
of advanced Alzheimer's.
The pop singer gained notice at
the age of
15, filling in at a 1959 concert
after Buddy
Holly died in a plane crash.
Vee went on to record 38 top 100
hits in all,
including "Take Good Care of My
Baby" and
"The Night Has a Thousand Eyes."
Bobby Vee was 73 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the push
to register Latino voters ahead
of Election
Day; rising tensions in the
protest to block
the Dakota oil pipeline; why a
Syrian activist
says the U.S. has let him down;
and much more.
With just over two weeks until
Election Day,
we turn now to our Politics
Monday duo, Tamara
Keith of NPR and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report.
She joins us from Dallas.
Fifteen days, but who's
counting?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: We are.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We certainly are.
So, Donald Trump today, Amy, is
out there
saying all the polls, which
mainly show Hillary
Clinton ahead, are phony.
He's talking about phony media,
don't pay
any attention to it.
What are we to believe?
Is it possible that most of
these polls are
wrong?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
Judy, you can believe a lot of
things.
You can also believe maybe that
a meteor is
going to come crashing to Earth
in the next
15 days.
But it's hard to believe of the
31 polls that
we have seen over the last
month, all but
three of them have shown Hillary
Clinton leading,
are all wrong.
In fact, the big major polling
operations
out there, CNN, ABC News, FOX,
all have Clinton
ahead anywhere between five and
11 points.
And so I believe that the polls
have a margin
of error?
Absolutely, but the reality is,
is that all
the polls, whether they are
national polls,
whether they are state polls,
are showing
an unmistakable pattern, and
that is a movement
to Hillary Clinton.
And it's increased enthusiasm
from Democrats.
Interestingly, we talked about
this last week,
Judy, but the attention that
Donald Trump
has been giving on the trail
about vote rigging
and about the media and about
dishonesty may
actually be depressing his own
voters.
Democrats, at least in the most
recent polls,
were seeming much more
enthusiastic about
supporting Hillary Clinton, much
more enthusiastic
about coming out to vote.
And, remember, early voting has
started in
a lot of these states.
So many of these states, more
than half of
their votes come through early
voting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Tam, you're
talking to
people in the campaigns all the
time.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there any
undercurrent of
suspicion out there that maybe
there is something
wrong with the polls this year?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, there is
suspicion coming
from the Trump campaign, but
there is not
suspicion coming from the
Clinton campaign.
Their internal polls, from what
they have
told us from time to time, have
matched the
public polls or showed them
actually in a
better position than the public
polls.
And they do their polling
differently, their
internal polling differently.
They match it up with voters
files, and they
feel very confident about where
they stand.
Trump has actually today pointed
to an e-mail
released by WikiLeaks, a John
Podesta e-mail,
saying that they're oversampling
certain voters.
That was an e-mail from 2008.
Donald Trump wasn't running for
president
in 2008.
You know, this is a case of a
candidate who
has built his campaign on
winning, and now
he's trying to deal with
evidence on the ground
that indicates that, at this
moment and probably
going forward, winning is not
something that
is apparent in any of the public
polls really.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, you have
been looking
at polls for a number of
elections.
You have been doing this for a
while.
So, how far ahead is Hillary
Clinton?
What can she count on at this
point, or if
anything?
AMY WALTER: Well, Judy, thanks
for that.
Yes, I'm very old.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: I have been doing
this for a long
time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Not around as
long as some
of us.
Let's put it that way.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: If you look at --
what I like
to do is to look at an average
of polls, rather
than taking one poll and
spending too much
time on that.
So, a number of these Web sites
now aggregate
polls.
They put their own trend lines
together.
And what they're showing is
Hillary Clinton
up anywhere between five and six
points nationally.
That's going to translate
differently in different
states.
But just to give you an idea of
what five
or six points looks like at the
Electoral
College level, remember, Barack
Obama won
by about four points in 2012,
easily carried
the Electoral College.
He won by more than 10 million
votes in 2008,
by about six, seven points.
He had 323 electoral votes --
I'm sorry -- 365
electoral votes in 2008.
So a six-point national average
translates
to a pretty big electoral
margin, maybe not
as big as Barack Obama's in
2008.
The one challenge that Hillary
Clinton has
is, she's still struggling in a
place -- in
two places that Obama carried,
Iowa and Ohio.
But she's obviously doing better
in Arizona
and Georgia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Tam, what we
do see is
that the Clinton camp, Hillary
Clinton, is
expanding the focus.
Yes, they're campaigning for
her, but she's
talking about these Senate
candidates.
We heard that in Lisa's piece a
few minutes
ago.
How comfortable do they feel
spending time
and resources on that?
TAMARA KEITH: Clearly -- and
also the super
PAC that is allied with Hillary
Clinton is
also shifting its resources,
shifting some
of its focus to the Senate.
So, the Clinton campaign at this
point is
very confident that they can get
to 270 electoral
votes.
And they are now running a
campaign that is
very much also about --
conveniently, many
of the competitive Senate races
also happen
to be in the swing states.
But they are running a campaign
that is about
trying to make sure that she has
a Democratic
Senate to work with for things
like Supreme
Court nominees and other
nominees.
And, initially, her campaign
focus, they treated
Donald Trump as an outlier.
They said, you know, he's not a
Republican.
They were trying to win over
moderate Republicans.
Now they're saying, all of these
Republican
Senate candidates, they stuck by
him, they
enabled him, they didn't disavow
him enough.
And they're trying to sort of
hang Donald
Trump on them, even though --
even though
-- yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we know
what you mean.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We know what you
mean.
But, Tam, there's one other
thing I do want
to ask you about.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have been
reporting lately
on this growing sense out there
on the campaign
trail or commentary that is --
and the treatment
of women, attitudes toward
women.
And you wrote about it just the
other day.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
So, basically, that story says
it was inevitable
that sexism would have a
presence in a campaign
with a woman running to be
president of the
United States, be the first
female president
of the United States.
It was inevitable with Hillary
Clinton that
-- especially -- that there's
been negativity
about her coming from the
Republican side
for as long as she's been in the
public eye.
She's a disruptive figure.
But what wasn't inevitable is
that her opponent
would actively cede and fuel
that sexism with
things like the woman card.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
TAMARA KEITH: And I talk to
Republican political
operatives who say, if this were
a different
candidate, it probably wouldn't
have been
this overt.
It certainly wouldn't have been
coming from
the lectern of the person that
was running
for president.
And they believe that that is
going to contribute
to what is likely the largest
gender gap in
history, with women
overwhelmingly favoring
Hillary Clinton.
And that nasty woman comment
became sort of
a crystallizing moment for a lot
of voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And very quickly,
Amy, that's
what a lot of people are looking
at, isn't
it, the gap, the gender gap.
AMY WALTER: The gender gap, and,
again, one
piece, of course, being Hillary
Clinton, who
she is, and the other, of
course, Donald Trump
and the comments he's made
throughout the
campaign and the judgments that
he's made.
And that's going to be a big
piece of this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Amy
Walter, who's
only been covering politics for
a very short
time, thank you.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: Very short.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Tamara Keith.
Politics Monday, thank you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as we have
heard, reliably
red Arizona is one of the latest
states that
is feeling the effects of a
Democratic push.
Just last week, Michelle Obama
visited Phoenix,
and polls show the presidential
race tightening.
Hoping to boost voter turnout, a
group called
Arizona One is making sure
Latinos who are
eligible actually register and
vote.
By the recent state deadline,
Arizona One
helped register 150,000 Latino
voters.
The story comes from University
of California,
Berkeley, journalism students.
It's produced by Angelica Casas
and Jennifer
Cain, who narrates.
JENNIFER CAIN: Abril Gallardo is
working overtime.
ABRIL GALLARDO, One Arizona: We
can start
off and do some role play.
My name is Abril.
Nice to meet you.
JENNIFER CAIN: The college
student is a part
of a coalition called One
Arizona.
The group's effort, to register
new Latino
voters, could alter the
political makeup of
the state.
ABRIL GALLARDO: We are going to
get you registered
to vote.
Are you a U.S. citizen?
JENNIFER CAIN: Roughly, 400,000
Latinos are
eligible to vote, but are
unregistered.
One Arizona registered 150,000
Latino voters
this year.
Latinos tend to vote Democrat.
Their efforts could swing the
state blue for
the first time in decades.
ABRIL GALLARDO: You're not old
enough?
Will you be 18 before November?
I want to make a change in my
community.
I want to impact my community.
JENNIFER CAIN: Some of the
canvassers can't
vote themselves, like Abril.
For over a decade, she was
undocumented.
Now she calls herself
DACAmented.
DACA is Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals.
It provides temporary legal
status to individuals
who arrived in the U.S. before
2007 and were
under the age of 16.
ABRIL GALLARDO: I have my own
voice, and,
as undocumented and not being
able to vote,
my power, my political power is
as strong
as if I could vote.
JENNIFER CAIN: In 2010, Arizona
passed state
Bill 1070.
The law required immigrants over
the age of
14 to carry documentation of
legal status
at all times.
Many families felt targeted by
the law and
formed One Arizona.
ALEJANDRA GOMEZ, Executive
Director, Arizona
Center for Empowerment: So we
would have the
vigil on this side, and then, on
this side,
we would have all of the voter
registration
tables.
JENNIFER CAIN: At the time
SB-1070 passed,
Alejandra Gomez was in college
and her father
was undocumented.
ALEJANDRA GOMEZ: We have been
going out to
every single supermarket, mall.
We have been going out to gas
stations.
It's this whole group of young
people that
care about what happens to their
parents,
that care about their future,
that care about
their education.
JENNIFER CAIN: Many of the
group's canvassers
come from predominantly Latino
neighborhoods
in Phoenix, Tucson and Yuma,
where One Arizona
focuses its efforts.
JOSE OSORIA, One Arizona:
There's many people
out there that can't vote, but
they wish they
could vote, because they know
how much this
affects them.
JENNIFER CAIN: Jose Osoria, an
18-year-old
canvasser, is one of those
people who wish
they could vote.
Born in Sonora, he immigrated 10
years ago.
Now he works full time on voter
education
and voter protection.
JOSE OSORIA: A lot of people
don't know where
to go to get registered.
The majority would be Hispanic
families that
are citizens and are able to
vote, but don't
know the whole thing.
So I take my time.
MAN (through translator): We
need the whole
community, right?
JOSE OSORIA (through
translator): That's true.
MAN (through translator): This
is the first
time I will be voting.
I just became a citizen.
JOSE OSORIA (through
translator): Thank you.
I'm going out there and teaching
people like
me.
JENNIFER CAIN: While efforts to
register Latinos
have helped increase their rolls
to more than
600,000, not all will go to the
polls.
ALEJANDRA GOMEZ: The
undocumented community
that can't vote are the ones
that have been
leading these efforts and saying
that, even
though I can't vote, you can be
my voice and
you can be my vote.
JOSE OSORIA: When I register
someone, I'm
always doing it with a smile,
because they're
contagious.
MAN: Voting?
I not receive my registration.
JENNIFER CAIN: As Election Day
approaches,
One Arizona will knock on the
doors of 105,000
homes, urging people to get to
the polls and
vote early.
JOSE OSORIA: Then you should
re-register,
because you weren't registered.
So, sign here and date it.
Today is the 23rd.
JENNIFER CAIN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm
Jennifer Cain reporting in
Phoenix, Arizona.
JOSE OSORIA: Thank you so much.
MAN: Have a good day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We return now to
the escalating
fight over a major oil pipeline
in North Dakota.
This weekend, more than 120
protesters were
arrested, part of a months-long
campaign being
waged by numerous Native
American tribes and
nations against the Dakota
Access oil pipeline.
For the latest, I'm joined by
our William
Brangham, who reported from
North Dakota last
month and has been following the
story closely.
William, bring us up to date,
but, first,
remind us, what is this fight
all about?
What are the arguments on each
side?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The fight, as
you mentioned,
is about this pipeline.
It's the Dakota Access pipeline.
It's a 1,200-mile pipeline to
bring oil from
North Dakota, the Bakken oil
fields, down
to Illinois.
And the point of contention here
is right
at the border of the North
Dakota-South Dakota
state line.
And that's where the Standing
Rock Tribe has
a reservation.
And their primary source of
drinking water
is the Missouri River.
This pipeline is going to go
right under the
river just north of their
reservation.
And they say two things.
One, if that pipeline leaks,
it's going to
contaminate their only source of
drinking
water.
And, two, the construction
process will desecrate
burial grounds and ancestral
sites just north
of their reservation.
So that's their argument.
They don't want the pipeline
there because
of that reason.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The company
that is building
this, Energy Transfer Partners,
argues they
have done all the legal permits
and applications
and they have done all the bits
that they're
supposed to do.
They also argue that this
pipeline is a far
safer way of transporting oil
than trains
or trucks, which are much more
prone to crash.
And there is data that backs
that assertion
up.
They also argue that we live in
a carbon-based
society.
We drove to work today.
People are going to drive to
work tomorrow.
And until we figure a different
way of moving
oil or find a different way to
power our houses
and cars, we have to deal with
this material
and they argue the pipeline is
the way to
go.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, where does
the actual construction
stand right now of the pipeline?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The energy
company says
that the pipeline is about 60
percent built.
So you can imagine the pipeline
is moving
in from the north and the south.
And it's -- the real holdup at
this point
right near the Standing Rock
reservation.
And that's where most of the
protests and
arrests that we have seen have
been happening,
where members of different
Native tribes,
primarily Standing Rock, go out
to these places
where the construction is still
going on and
they chain themselves to the
trucks.
The police come arrest them.
And that's where the conflict
has been happening.
But the pipeline is largely
done.
And that's where really the
fight is going
on right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, we know there
is still
a couple of restrictions that
have to be lifted
before they can go ahead and
finish with the
construction, but once that
happens, what
do people expect will take
place?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Well, that's
really -- that's
a very dodgy question.
People don't exactly know what's
going to
happen.
If the Army Corps agrees to this
last permit
and says to the company, go
ahead and finish,
drill into the river, the
question is, what
will all these protesters do?
We saw thousands of people out
there.
It's not clear if they will
voluntarily get
up and leave.
It's not clear if there will be
a fight.
Who is going to evict them?
The jails out there are already
so full, they
have to bus people they arrest
outside of
the state.
Will the National Guard be
involved?
Will this very militarized
police force step
in?
Nobody really knows.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, William, you
and I were
talking earlier.
You were saying how unusual it
is that you
have, what, over 100 different
Native American
tribes that have come together
to make up
this protest.
Why over this particular issue?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's really
the most fascinating
part of all this, because there
have been
plenty of instances in the past
where you
could have seen tribes coalesce
around an
issue.
I think social media had a lot
to do with
this.
They have been -- the tribe, the
Standing
Rock, has been very, very good
at getting
their message out.
Every time there's an arrest,
every time there's
a protest, every time there's
something they
want to promote, it's on
Facebook, it's on
Twitter, it's on social media.
So that's brought people
together.
I think, also, that this wasn't
a fait accompli.
It wasn't a done deal.
And so when they put out the
call and said,
come help us, people felt like
they could
stand in the way of this.
And for whatever reason, people
from all over
the country, really all over the
world, came
together and said, enough is
enough.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I know you
are going to
continue to watch it.
It's very much an active scene
right now.
The protest goes on.
William Brangham, thank you.
Secretary of State John Kerry
and Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
spoke today
by phone about the situation in
the besieged
Syrian city of Aleppo.
After a brief letup, the heavy
fighting and
bombing has resumed there.
Four years ago, Margaret Warner
traveled throughout
that part of Northwest Syria.
She has been back in touch with
a man she
first met just outside Aleppo.
MARGARET WARNER: It was November
2012 in a
small town in Syria, and Saleh
Hawa had hopes.
With civil war roiling around
him, this father
of three, an English literature
teacher, was
leading demonstrations against
the regime
of Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad.
Hawa also headed a local civic
council in
his town in rebel-controlled
Northwest Syria.
It was working to restore
electricity and
basic services destroyed by
government attacks.
He sounded fairly confident then
in his country's
prospects.
A formal Syrian opposition
coalition had just
been created, with the
encouragement of Western
and Gulf countries.
SALEH HAWA, Local Administrative
Council,
Haratan, Syria: I am optimistic,
because the
international community is now
cooperating
with this council, with this new
council.
And I think, personally, that
most of the
Syrian people are with this
council.
We are looking forward to a
better future,
and we are tired now.
We are tired now of war.
We are tired of shelling every
day.
MARGARET WARNER: We spoke in a
walled garden
in Hawa's hometown of Haratan,
just northwest
of Aleppo.
We then traveled to the regional
headquarters
of the Free Syrian Army, made up
of self-declared
moderate rebels.
Its Commander, Colonel
Abdul-Jabbar Akidi,
told us bluntly how desperately
they needed
weapons from the United States.
COL.
ABDUL-JABBAR AKIDI, Aleppo
Region Military
Council (through translator):
The Syrian people
will not forget any country that
provides
them with support, and will not
forgive any
country that helps the Assad
regime.
MARGARET WARNER: But in the four
years since
then, none of Hawa's hopes, but
all of his
fears, have been realized.
Haratan has been repeatedly
pounded by bombing
from Russian and Syrian jets,
dropping not
only explosive-packed barrel
bombs, but cluster
bombs and the fearsome
incendiary white phosphorous.
When we first met Hawa, the war
had killed
37,000 people.
Now it's 500,000 dead and nine
million displaced.
Aleppo and the area around it
has become ground
zero.
Last week, the Russian military
announced
a short-lived cease-fire, a
pause to let humanitarian
aid into and around Aleppo,
including Hawa's
hometown.
But Hawa, whom we reconnected
with via Skype,
says there are few lives left to
save in his
town.
SALEH HAWA: Most of the
population of Haratan
left the town, because there is
no single
house which is safe right now.
Most of the houses were
completely or partially
destroyed.
And they cannot be lived in
again.
So, most of the families left
the city, because
right now there is no
electricity, no water,
no food.
Even the bakery was targeted.
All hospitals, all medical
centers were targeted.
MARGARET WARNER: Hawa and wife
and children
fled Haratan to a nearby town.
They're all safe, he said, but
he's lost many
friends, and himself was the
target of a car
bomb attack in early 2014.
He and others are still teaching
at a makeshift
college they call the Free
University of Aleppo,
but he sounds full of despair
and bitterness.
SALEH HAWA: We are being
butchered under the
eye of the international
community.
MARGARET WARNER: It's not just
the bombing,
he said.
His town's defenders, already
fighting ISIS
and the Syrian government, then
were confronted
with other foes.
They'd come from afar to defend
the Assad
regime.
SALEH HAWA: We came face to face
with the
Shiite militias.
And they are mostly Afghani,
Afghanistani.
Most of them are Iranian, and so
on.
MARGARET WARNER: So, Afghanis
sponsored by
Iran and trained by Iran?
SALEH HAWA: Yes, sure.
MARGARET WARNER: Are they
well-equipped?
SALEH HAWA: They're
well-equipped.
MARGARET WARNER: Caught between
all these
competing forces, Hawa says he
and his countrymen
have been abandoned, even as
endless talks
go on between the U.S. and
Russians and at
times members of the Syrian
opposition coalition.
So, can you foresee a political
solution at
this point?
SALEH HAWA: No.
I'm so sorry to say no.
I see that the horizon is quite
blocked in
front of us, because America is
not doing
anything, or maybe -- or maybe
America won't
do anything.
It's just that America hasn't
have the will
to finish our agony, finish our
pains, to
finish or sufferings.
We were let down.
America let us down.
And the situation now is that
Russia has got
military bases inside Syria.
Their warplanes are flying in
the sky every
time they like.
MARGARET WARNER: Videos of the
Syrian people's
suffering have spread worldwide,
but Hawa
has no faith that the world will
respond.
Speaking to us now, thousands of
miles away,
he recalled the expectations he
had when we
met four years ago.
SALEH HAWA: I hoped, at that
time, that America
would, in a way, help us to put
an end to
that dictator who is now in
Damascus.
I had a hope that there are
countries who
would help us rebuild our
country and help
those innocent people.
Now we don't trust anybody.
We don't trust any country.
We have had many promises that
they will not
allow Bashar al-Assad to destroy
our cities.
But, right now, you see that the
situation
is deteriorating even worse than
before.
And it's becoming worse.
It's becoming worse and worse
day by day.
MARGARET WARNER: And with each
day, new casualties
and faded hopes of a lasting
peace.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner
in Washington.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As we have been
reporting,
the tone and rhetoric of this
presidential
race are markedly different from
previous
years and have only intensified
with two weeks
to go to Election Day.
That's the focus of the latest
addition to
the "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
Jeffrey Brown is in charge.
JEFFREY BROWN: Had enough of
debates, ads,
speeches?
A new book argues that -- quote
-- "The crisis
in our politics is a crisis of
political language,"
as it explores the arts and
science of rhetoric
through the ages.
It's called "Enough Said: What's
Gone Wrong
With the Language of Politics?"
Author Mark Thompson is viewing
all this from
a very influential perch, as
president and
CEO of The New York Times
Company.
Welcome to you.
MARK THOMPSON, Author, "Enough
Said: What's
Gone Wrong With the Language of
Politics?":
Hi there.
JEFFREY BROWN: The problem is
our language
or our politics.
You're making the case that it's
one and the
same.
MARK THOMPSON: We have been
brought up, many
of us, to think that the
political language
is like a superficial layer, and
below that
is ideology and policy.
My argument is, it's all tangled
up.
Particular ideas are expressed
in language.
They're argued about in
language.
They're communicated from one
human being
to another in language.
And political language is
everywhere.
And it's because of changes I
saw in political
language that I decided to write
this book.
JEFFREY BROWN: And so let me try
to look at
now and we will put it in some
context.
I'm going to do a broad brush
here and say
that, in Hillary Clinton, I
think many people
see a kind of political rhetoric
that comes
off as phony.
Is that fair?
MARK THOMPSON: I think it is.
She is almost the epitome of a
certain kind
of modern, technocratic, very
rational, very
carefully argued political
language which
many people find convincing, but
a growing
number of people, in many
Western countries,
are finding that kind of
political language
distant, alienating and
unfeeling, and maybe
even not believable.
JEFFREY BROWN: Not believable.
And, well, it leads us to Donald
Trump, right?
MARK THOMPSON: When you get a
breakdown in
the conventions of political
rhetoric, and
when you get a large number of
people who
are looking for something
different, it opens
up a vacuum into which populists
can come.
And this is very fertile ground
for a populist
who wants to say something much
simpler, which
is, I speak like you.
I'm an ordinary person like you.
I call it authenticism.
By an authenticist, I mean a
politician who
very deliberately and
consciously aims to
appear authentic.
JEFFREY BROWN: The media is part
of your book,
part of this political culture,
of course,
part of the worsening of our
political culture?
MARK THOMPSON: Yes.
Yes.
And the media has gone through
great changes.
And it's come under,
particularly of the digital
revolution, colossal competitive
pressure.
And it's reduced thinking time,
because the
new cycle is continuous now.
The urge to go for the bolder
quotes, the
more -- the strongest possible
version of
the story means that, very much
like the politicians,
the risk is, you get into a bias
around exaggeration
and of high drama.
So, instead of calm,
dispassionate discussion,
you tend to get these very
abrupt, you know,
and dramatic developments in the
story.
JEFFREY BROWN: The institution
you represent
in particular, though, is not
just any player.
It is a major player in all of
this, becomes
part of the news itself.
MARK THOMPSON: The two
institutions I have
been most involved with, The New
York Times
and the BBC, because I think
they try incredibly
hard not to get swept away by
these trends
and to try and still report
things dispassionately
and fairly.
JEFFREY BROWN: But to the extent
that The
Times is a target for those who
see it as
wielding its power for a
particular bias,
is that a dangerous place for a
media institution
to be, or where you want to be?
MARK THOMPSON: No, I think if
you believe
in the First Amendment for
journalists and
for newspapers and TV companies,
you have
got to believe in it for their
critics as
well.
Everyone's got a right to raise
any criticism
they want about our journalism,
and we should
take that seriously.
What you don't have the right to
do is to
try and threaten people into
silence.
And we very recently have been
in receipt
of a letter threatening a libel
action from
Donald Trump's lawyers.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
MARK THOMPSON: We responded
firstly making
the point that there was nothing
about Donald
Trump's reputation which he
hadn't already,
frankly, built himself before we
printed the
testimony of a couple of the
women who said
they had been abused by him,
and, secondly,
reminding Mr. Trump's lawyers
about the First
Amendment and our right to cover
matters of
genuine public importance.
JEFFREY BROWN: How do you, on
the one hand,
call for a less combative stance
from the
media, a more sort of
analytical, explain
to people, while at the same
time being in
combat?
MARK THOMPSON: I think politics
probably has
always been combat.
The issue is whether or not
there are sensible
rules of engagement.
If I allow you to make your case
and keep
quiet and don't interrupt you,
and then you
let me make my case, we can let
the people
who hear us decide who's got the
better case.
If we're talking over each other
and arguing
and complaining, it begins to
jumble the discourse,
the rather vicious world of the
anonymous
Web.
It's reinfected straightforward
political
oratory, so that the things that
politicians
say about each other, the
abandonment of any
presumption of good faith, the
calling of
other politicians liars, they
should be in
jail and so forth, this doesn't
really help
politics.
I don't think the public like
it.
JEFFREY BROWN: What would it
take to change
it?
MARK THOMPSON: You can read
history very pessimistically
or optimistically.
JEFFREY BROWN: Where are you
today?
MARK THOMPSON: Well, I want to
be optimistic.
I think the stakes for us are
very high.
And I would say, right now,
freedom of speech,
clarity of political discourse,
simply the
tone and the credibility of the
political
process is under grave
challenge, crucially
not just in the U.S., but in my
country in
the U.K. and I would say in
pretty much every
country in the Western world.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Enough
Said."
Mark Thompson, thank you very
much.
MARK THOMPSON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After all of
these years, it's
hard to believe this next
sentence, but fans
know it's true: The Chicago Cubs
will face
off against the Cleveland
Indians starting
tomorrow night in the World
Series.
Life is about to change in one
of these cities,
whose fans have long suffered
and waited decades
for a baseball championship.
John Yang, who has Chicago and
Cleveland roots
of his own, is our guide.
MAN: The Cubs have won the
pennant!
JOHN YANG: It's a call that
hasn't been made
in 71 years.
The Chicago Cubs and their
long-suffering
fans are finally going back to
World Series.
WOMAN: Oh, my gosh, I was crying
the whole
game.
I'm out of tears.
WOMAN: It's unbelievable.
Like, all you think is, are they
really going
to do it and am I going to be
there?
And we were.
We were here to watch them win.
JOHN YANG: Cubs fans have seen
their share
of heartbreak, including losing
101 games
just four years ago.
The last time the Cubs actually
won the World
Series, 1908.
The last time they won a
pennant, a local
tavern owner and his goat were
kicked out
of World Series game four at
Wrigley Field.
Ever since, the curse of the
billy goat, and
some notorious blunders on field
and off,
have kept them on the outside
looking in.
But the Cubs aren't the only
team hoping to
end a World Series drought this
year.
They're set to face the
Cleveland Indians,
who haven't won the fall classic
since 1948.
They have made it three times
since, but lost
each time, most recently in 1995
and 1997.
WOMAN: Just amazing.
They're doing great, and I know
they're going
to bring that World Series home.
JOHN YANG: Game one is set for
Tuesday in
Cleveland, and the excitement in
both cities
is running high.
According to tracking site
TicketIQ, standing
room for Tuesday's start at
$860.
And for Friday's game in
Chicago, $2,000.
More on this moment, the history
and the mood
from a pair of sports reporters
covering these
teams.
Al Pawlowski is host of "Indians
Live," the
Cleveland pre- and post-game
shows on Fox
SportsTime Ohio.
And Rick Telander is the senior
sports columnist
for The Chicago Sun-Times.
Al, Rick, thanks a lot for
joining us.
Rick, let me start with you.
Your column this morning, you
said it's still
hard to conceive of the Cubs in
the World
Series after 71 years away.
Were there ever moments you
doubted this or
you questioned Saturday night
that this was
actually going to happen?
RICK TELANDER, The Chicago
Sun-Times: Oh,
absolutely.
You doubt everything all the
way.
I mean, 71 years ago, I wasn't
even born.
And so everybody -- you heard in
the setup
piece the young women speaking,
people weeping
openly when the Cubs won that
game.
And when they got to five outs
-- you know,
five outs is that critical
amount that they
missed in 2003, the notorious
game where Moises
Alou slapped his glove on his
leg because
he missed a foul ball because
fan were reaching
for it.
So, there's always been doubt.
And it's hard even now I think
in Chicago
for people to believe this,
because they -- they
don't anybody alive -- there is
no one alive
who've seen the Cubs win the
World Series,
and there's very few people
alive who saw
them even get into a World
Series.
JOHN YANG: Al, so much attention
is being
given to the Ind -- to the --
I'm sorry -- to
Cubs and about their sort of
reputation as
lovable losers.
But there's a lot of history
with the Indians
too over the years.
What does this mean to
Cleveland?
AL PAWLOWSKI, Fox SportsTime
Ohio: Well, it
goes back to so many
generations, similar
to Chicago.
The Cubs have been around there
forever, and
same thing here with the
Indians.
They played professional
baseball here since
the late 1800s.
The Indians have been around
since 1901.
So, something that the Indians
bring even
more than the Cavaliers that won
the championship
this summer -- and it was
Cleveland's first
major sports championship since
1964 -- baseball
and the Indians kind of connect
the generations.
I remember my grandparents
talking about Larry
Doby and Lou Boudreau and some
of those guys,
and my parents talking about
what they saw
when they were kids in the '54
World Series.
And there hasn't been a winner
since '48.
I have never seen this team win
a World Series.
I have seen them in it for a
couple of years
in the '90s.
But that's kind of what this
baseball team
brings to this community.
It's a sports team that really
connects the
generations over time.
JOHN YANG: Over the weekend,
Bernie Lincicome,
who writes for The Chicago
Tribune, and grew
up an Indians fan, your
cross-river rival
there, Rick, he said: "This
series matchup
invites the question of who has
suffered more,
as if pain decides who is more
deserving,
as if agony is a critical
benefit."
Rick, talk about some of that
pain over the
years.
You mentioned the five-out
championship a
few years back.
But talk about some of that pain
over the
years for Cubs fans.
RICK TELANDER: Well, it's very
similar to
Cleveland.
Only, I think it's more extreme
because it
goes back farther.
People in Chicago don't hate the
city of Cleveland.
Cleveland's been through a lot
of troubles
as a city.
Chicago has, too.
We have got a lot of financial
problems.
But the thing that connects
everybody, and
the suffering is especially for
the Cubs,
because, don't forget, we have a
South Side
team called the White Sox, and
they won the
World Series in 2005.
So, that appeased a lot of
people who are
Sox fans.
But Cubs fans, you can go back.
I mean, my grandson, well, they
live -- I
go to visit them in Columbus,
and he's being
raised, I'm afraid, an Indians
fan by my son-in-law,
Mike Edmonds (ph), and my
daughter, who's
a die-hard Cubs fan.
But, at any rate, there are fans
who go back
grandchild, child, father, my
father, and
then my grandfather.
None of us saw the Cubs win the
World Series.
So, that bonding, that suffering
is always
there.
And you build kind of a hard
shell to prevent
yourself from suffering more.
When the Cubs get close, people
say, oh, no,
I know they are going to blow
it.
I know it's going to happen.
And they just say that just
because they can't
take their heart and rip it
apart again.
I can list the years that I have
been alive
for the heartbreak.
That's 1969, those Cubs, the '84
Cubs, when
the ball went through Leon
Durham's legs and
they lost to the Padres; '89,
they were in
the playoffs and lost, '98; 2003
was perhaps
the biggest heartbreaker of them
all.
And 2007 and 2008, they had
outstanding teams
and they got swept each year in
the first
round of the playoffs.
And people were like, what?
They have no idea.
So, believe me, you build up
that defense
system just to protect yourself.
JOHN YANG: Al, what about Tribe
fans?
Go back to '97.
It's a little fresher, the 1997
World Series.
Talk about some of that pain.
AL PAWLOWSKI: Well, I'll tell
you what.
I still remember where I was the
moment that
the '97 World Series was
happening, and we're
watching game seven, and they're
playing the
Marlins.
And the Indians have this 3-2
lead heading
into the ninth inning.
And I still didn't feel like,
oh, they are
going to win it, it's going to
be fine, because
a lot of what Rick just said, we
have that
here too in Cleveland.
And in Chicago, they have
champions.
You mentioned the White Sox.
They have them.
They have had the Blackhawks
with what they
have won.
The Bulls won all those titles.
Up until the Cavaliers won this
summer, no
Cleveland major professional
sports franchise
had won a championship.
So, similar to what the Cubs go
through, Indians
go through, too.
It's that feeling of, boy, is
something going
to go wrong, is something going
to happen
this year like it always has in
years past?
Now, the good news is, and the
big difference,
with the Cavaliers winning a
championship
in June, you really can see a
change in attitude
here in the city, in the fans.
Instead of feeling, boy, how are
the Cubs
going to beat the Indians now in
the World
Series, now it's more like --
and we saw this
throughout October -- how does
this baseball
team find a way to win?
Because they always seem to find
a way to
win.
Now there is a confidence here
that maybe
wasn't here back in the '90s,
when the Indians
played the Braves in '95 and
then the Marlins
in '97.
JOHN YANG: Al, you talk about
the Cavs.
Tomorrow is not just game one of
the World
Series, the season opener for
the Cavaliers,
raising the championship banner.
This morning in The Sun-Times,
Rick wrote
that may be another -- it's
already a lot
of success for Cleveland.
He wrote: "Dare I say this?
Cleveland, city of solid
Midwestern folks,
take a knee."
Al, you got Rick here.
What do you say to that?
(LAUGHTER)
AL PAWLOWSKI: Well, there's no
way we're taking
a knee now, because this might
be the only
year that Cleveland can win
multiple sports
championships.
I mean, it hasn't happened since
1948.
The Browns did.
The Indians did.
If Cleveland has a chance to win
a couple,
they are going to go for it.
And I understand what he is
saying.
Hey, the Cubs, it's been a while
for them.
But to see this town, and you
talked about
it, right now -- I was just
outside a few
moments ago, and all the stages
set up.
All the networks are here.
They're here to cover the
Cavaliers.
Indians.
We had the Republican National
Convention
in July.
Same type of deal.
Suddenly, Cleveland is the big
media center
of the world when it comes to
sports, at least
for Tuesday night for game one,
and then also
for the Cavaliers opening up and
getting their
rings when they take on the
Knicks.
It's really a magical time.
And if you have been a lifelong
Clevelander,
or at least a Cleveland sports
fan, you never
thought you would experience
something like
this.
And now that it's here, it's
just truly wonderful
to be a part of it.
JOHN YANG: Al, Rick, two great
cities, two
great teams.
Let's hope for a great series.
Thanks for being with us.
AL PAWLOWSKI: You got it.
Sounds good.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
of interest to you, too.
Last week, the Smithsonian
Institution asked
the public for help in saving
Dorothy's ruby
slippers.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia Griffin
has this update.
UNIDENTIFIED ACTRESS: It's too
late.
There they are, and there they
will stay.
JULIA GRIFFIN: For more than 30
years, Dorothy's
ruby slippers from the 1939
classic "The Wizard
of Oz" have stayed at the
Smithsonian National
Museum of American History.
Entertainment curator Ryan
Lintelman said
the display is one of the most
popular at
the museum.
RYAN LINTELMAN, Smithsonian
National Museum
of American History: I see
people's faces
light up the first time they see
the ruby
slippers, and the glimmer of the
sequins,
and it always puts a smile on my
face.
And it reminds me of what we do
here at the
museum is connect people to
their shared history.
Everybody loves the ruby
slippers.
JULIA GRIFFIN: But the slippers,
one of several
pairs crafted almost 80 years
ago by MGM's
prop department, were only meant
to last through
filming, not the test of time,
and the size
five shoes have begun to show
their age.
Threads have come loose.
The soles' felt, which muffled
sound as Judy
Garland danced along the Yellow
Brick Road,
has degraded.
And the famous sequins, once a
deep red hue,
have faded and dulled.
Preservation services manager
Richard Barden:
RICHARD BARDEN, Smithsonian
National Museum
of American History: They are
really discolored.
They have darkened.
They have become really opaque.
And there is cracking.
We want the sequins to always be
ruby.
We want to save that color.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Now the museum is
now is in
a race against time to clean and
preserve
the shoes before it's too late.
As it is, the federal government
covers only
funds about 60 percent of the
Smithsonian
Institution's budget.
So to conserve the slippers, the
museum has
turned to crowdfunding in hopes
that the public
will help foot the bill.
Last week, it launched a
campaign on the Web
site Kickstarter to cover the
estimated $300,000
cost.
RYAN LINTELMAN: This is
something that everybody
is kind of invested in.
So many people love "The Wizard
of Oz," so
we want to give people the
opportunity through
this platform to contribute
anything from
a dollar to $10,000.
Everybody feels like they own
"The Wizard
of Oz" in a way, because that's
our American
fairy tale.
And so now they can help us
preserve the ruby
slippers.
JULIA GRIFFIN: It's the second
such fund hosted
by the Smithsonian.
A similar campaign by the Air
and Space Museum
last summer raised more than
$700,000 to restore
Neil Armstrong's spacesuit.
And, yesterday, just six days
after the Kickstarter
began, more than 5,000 donors
helped the Smithsonian
reach its goal.
JUDY GARLAND, Actress: There's
no place like
home.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Now the ruby
slippers will
also get a new home: a
state-of-the-art display
case designed to prevent further
degradation.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Julia Griffin
in Washington, D.C.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And again to our
honor roll
of American service personnel
killed in Iraq
and the Afghanistan conflict.
We add them as their deaths are
made official
and photographs become
available.
Here, in silence, are two more.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.